##front [BBC TV Film Leader]
L3-cue_0b
##front Credits: Cornell University U.S.A., The Character of Physical Law, Professor Richard Feynman gives the Messenger Lectures
L3-cue_0
##Title The Great Conservation Principles
L3-cue_1
#When learning about the laws of physics, you find that there are a large number
L3-cue_2
of complicated and detailed laws—the laws of gravitation, of electricity and magnetism,
L3-cue_3
nuclear interactions, and so on, and so on.
L3-cue_4
But across the variety of these detailed laws, there sweep great general principles,
L3-cue_5
which all the laws seem to follow.
L3-cue_6
#Now, these principles are, for instance, the principles of conservation,
L3-cue_7
certain qualities of symmetry, the general form of quantum mechanical principles, and—unhappily,
L3-cue_8
or happily, as we spoke about last time—the fact that all the laws are mathematical.
L3-cue_9
#Tonight I want to talk about the conservation principle.
L3-cue_10
#Now, the physicist uses all the ordinary words in a peculiar manner, which is unfortunate.
L3-cue_11
For example, "conservation" (the conservation law) means this—the way he uses the word:
L3-cue_12
that there is a number, which you can calculate,
L3-cue_13
at one moment-and as nature undergoes its multitude
L3-cue_14
of changes, this number doesn’t change.
L3-cue_15
That is, if you calculate, again, this quantity, it’ll be the same as it was before.
L3-cue_16
#An example is the conservation of energy: there’s a quantity
L3-cue_17
that you can calculate according to a certain rule,
L3-cue_18
and it comes out the same answer after, no matter what happens, happens.
L3-cue_19
Now you could see that such a thing is possibly useful.
L3-cue_20
It’s analogous to this: suppose that the physics, or nature,
L3-cue_21
is made analogous to a great chess game that we are watching, with millions of pieces on it,
L3-cue_22
and we’re trying to discover the laws or the rules
L3-cue_23
by which the pieces move—and the great gods who play the chess play it very rapidly;
L3-cue_24
it’s hard to watch, and it’s difficult to see, and we’re catching on to some of the rules.
L3-cue_25
#But there are some rules which we could work out,
L3-cue_26
which do not require that we watch every move.
L3-cue_27
For instance, if there’s one bishop only on the board,
L3-cue_28
since the bishop moves diagonally, it never changes its color.
L3-cue_29
So if there’s a red bishop on the board, and we look away for a moment while the gods play
L3-cue_30
for a few, if we look again, we can expect that there’s a red bishop on the board—maybe
L3-cue_31
in a different place, but the same red bishop—I mean, the same color square.
L3-cue_32
This is in the nature of a conservation law: we don’t need to watch the insides,
L3-cue_33
but we at least know something about the game, anyway.
L3-cue_34
#It’s true that in chess this particular law is not necessarily perfectly valid.
L3-cue_35
If we watch long enough it could happen that the bishop is captured while we weren’t looking;
L3-cue_36
a pawn went down to queen, and the god decided that it was better to put a bishop instead
L3-cue_37
of a queen in the place of that pawn—and it was on a black square.
L3-cue_38
And so, unfortunately, it may well turn out that some of the laws
L3-cue_39
which we see today may not be exactly perfect, but I’ll tell you how it looks now.
L3-cue_40
#I said that we use words in a technical fashion,
L3-cue_41
and another word in this title is the great conservation principles.
L3-cue_42
This is not a technical word; it was merely put
L3-cue_43
in to make the title sound more dramatic—you could just
L3-cue_44
as well call them the conservation laws.
L3-cue_45
If you wish, there are a few conservation laws
L3-cue_46
that don’t work-that are only approximately right,
L3-cue_47
that are kind of useful—and we might call those the "little" conservation laws;
L3-cue_48
I’ll mention one or two of those.
L3-cue_49
#But the other ones that I’m going to mention are,
L3-cue_50
as far as we can tell today, absolutely accurate.
L3-cue_51
#The easiest one to understand is the one I’ll start with, and that’s the conservation
L3-cue_52
of electric charge: there’s a number—the total electric charge on a thing—which,
L3-cue_53
no matter what happens, doesn’t change—the total electric charge in the world, rather,
L3-cue_54
is what doesn’t change: the charge may go from one place to another, but if you lose it here,
L3-cue_55
you’ll find it over there—so the conservation is of a total of the electric charge.
L3-cue_56
#This was discovered experimentally, or demonstrated experimentally,
L3-cue_57
by—I am embarrassed to say, I don’t remember whether it was—I think it’s Faraday (but it
L3-cue_58
might have been Franklin); anyway, it’s somebody whose name begins with F—and I know
L3-cue_59
at least this much: that it isn’t Feynman, anyway.
L3-cue_60
#At any rate, the experiment consisted of getting inside of a great globe of metal,
L3-cue_61
on the outside of which was a very delicate galvanometer to look for charge on the globe,
L3-cue_62
because small amounts of charge would make a big effect.
L3-cue_63
Then, inside the globe, this experiment—that was named again with F—built all kinds
L3-cue_64
of weird electrical equipment of every kind: he made charges by rubbing glass rods
L3-cue_65
with cat’s fur; he made big electrostatic machines run inside, and so on,
L3-cue_66
so that the inside looked like those horror movies laboratories.
L3-cue_67
And during all these experiments, no charge developed
L3-cue_68
on the surface; there was no net charge made.
L3-cue_69
#When a glass rod was charged up with the cat’s fur,
L3-cue_70
the cats fur-although the rod may have been (I forget, say) positive,
L3-cue_71
then the cat’s fur would be the same amount of charge negative,
L3-cue_72
because the total charge was never anything.
L3-cue_73
If there were any charge developed on the inside, it would have appeared as an effect
L3-cue_74
in the galvanometer on the outside—so the total charge is conserved.
L3-cue_75
#Now, this one is an easy one to understand,
L3-cue_76
because a very simple model that’s not mathematical at all will explain it.
L3-cue_77
Suppose that the world is only made of two kinds of particles: electrons,
L3-cue_78
and protons (there was a time when it looked like it was going to be as easy as that),
L3-cue_79
and that the electrons carry a negative charge, and the protons a positive charge,
L3-cue_80
so we can separate them-we can take a piece of matter,
L3-cue_81
and put more electrons on, or less electrons.
L3-cue_82
But suppose that electrons are permanent: they do not disintegrate; they never disappear.
L3-cue_83
That’s all-that’s not even mathematical; that’s a simple proposition-and there you see
L3-cue_84
that the total number of electrons (or the protons,
L3-cue_85
rather) take away the number of electrons, won’t change.
L3-cue_86
#(As a matter of fact, the total number of protons won’t change, and the total number
L3-cue_87
of electrons won’t change, in this particular model,
L3-cue_88
but we’re concentrating now on the charge.)
L3-cue_89
#The difference-the contribution of the protons is positive, and the electrons is negative,
L3-cue_90
and if these objects are never created or destroyed alone,
L3-cue_91
then the total charge will be conserved.
L3-cue_92
#I want to list, later on, the number of properties of conserved quantities,
L3-cue_93
and I start with the one about charge
L3-cue_94
that we’re talking about—and we mark down here that it is conserved.
L3-cue_95
That’s the beginning; this goes yes.
L3-cue_96
So that’s the first.
L3-cue_97
The chart will expand as we go along.
L3-cue_98
#This theoretical interpretation is very simple.
L3-cue_99
But it was later discovered that electrons and protons are not permanent: for example,
L3-cue_100
a particle called a neutron disintegrates—can disintegrate—into a proton and an electron,
L3-cue_101
plus something else (which we’ll come to).
L3-cue_102
But the neutron, it turns out, is electrically neutral.
L3-cue_103
So although protons are not permanent, nor are electrons permanent (in the sense
L3-cue_104
that they can be created from a neutron), the charge still checks out,
L3-cue_105
because starting before we had zero charge, and afterward we have plus 1 and minus 1—so
L3-cue_106
when added together, we get zero charge.
L3-cue_107
#Now, another example of a similar trouble—not trouble, but fact—is this:
L3-cue_108
there exists another particle
L3-cue_109
which is positively charged—besides the proton—called the positron,
L3-cue_110
which is a kind of an image of an electron.
L3-cue_111
It’s just like the electron in most respects, except it has the opposite sign of charge—and,
L3-cue_112
more important, it’s called an antiparticle because when it meets with an electron,
L3-cue_113
the two of them can disintegrate—they can annihilate each other—and nothing
L3-cue_114
but light comes out.
L3-cue_115
#So electrons are not permanent—even them, by themselves:
L3-cue_116
an electron plus a positron will just make light (well, actually, the light is invisible;
L3-cue_117
it’s gamma rays, but it’s the same thing for a physicist, just the wave length is different).
L3-cue_118
So a particle and the antiparticle can annihilate; the light has no electrical charge,
L3-cue_119
but we remove one positive and one negative charge, so we haven’t changed the total charge.
L3-cue_120
Therefore, the charge—the theory of this conservation of charge—is a little, slightly,
L3-cue_121
more complicated, but still very unmathematical; it’s simply this:
L3-cue_122
how many positrons do you have, how many protons, take away the number
L3-cue_123
of electrons-and there are other particles, it turns out, in the world, that you have to check.
L3-cue_124
#For instance, there are antiprotons; they contribute negatively.
L3-cue_125
There are positive pi mesons; they contribute positively.
L3-cue_126
Each particle in nature has—fundamental particles have—charges,
L3-cue_127
and all we have to do is add the total number; whatever happens in any reaction,
L3-cue_128
the total amount of charges on one side has to balance on the other side.
L3-cue_129
That’s one aspect of the conservation of charge.
L3-cue_130
#Now comes an interesting question: is it sufficient to say only that charge is conserved,
L3-cue_131
or could we say—do we have to say—more?
L3-cue_132
If charge were conserved because it was a real particle which moved around,
L3-cue_133
it would have a very special property.
L3-cue_134
The total amount of charge in a box might stay the same in two ways:
L3-cue_135
it may be that the charge moves from one place to the other
L3-cue_136
in the box, and just stays in the box.
L3-cue_137
But another possibility is this: charge here disappears, and simultaneously over here,
L3-cue_138
charge arrives-in such a manner, instantaneously related,
L3-cue_139
so that the total charge is never changing.
L3-cue_140
#This possibility for the conservation is a different kind than the other one,
L3-cue_141
in which if anything happens that the charge goes away here, something has got to go
L3-cue_142
through the—in between, something goes past you—if you stood there
L3-cue_143
and watched, something would go by.
L3-cue_144
#The second form of charge conservation is called local charge conservation,
L3-cue_145
and is far more detailed than the simple remark that the total charge doesn’t change.
L3-cue_146
#So you see, we’ve been proving our law (if in fact, it’s true),
L3-cue_147
that charge is locally conserved.
L3-cue_148
(It is true.)
L3-cue_149
Then, it must be true—of course, nothing can be proved without some other things,
L3-cue_150
but as I desire to show you from time to time as much as possible some of the possibilities
L3-cue_151
of reasoning interconnecting one idea with another, I would like to show you an argument,
L3-cue_152
which is fundamentally due to Einstein,
L3-cue_153
which indicates that if anything is conserved (in this case I apply it to charge),
L3-cue_154
it must be conserved locally, provided one thing:
L3-cue_155
provided that if two fellows are passing each other in a spaceship,
L3-cue_156
the argument about which guy is doing the moving
L3-cue_157
and which one is standing still cannot be resolved by any experiment.
L3-cue_158
#That’s called the principle of relativity—that the motion is relative, and that we can look
L3-cue_159
at any phenomenon from either point of view, either from the point of view
L3-cue_160
that the one is moving, and that this—say this one is standing still,
L3-cue_161
and this one is moving, or the other way around.
L3-cue_162
#Now, suppose I take this point of view that this one is the one that’s moving past him.
L3-cue_163
(Don’t forget, that’s just temporary; you can also look at it the other way,
L3-cue_164
and you must get the same phenomena of nature.)
L3-cue_165
Now suppose that this man, who’s standing still, wants to argue whether or not he sees a charge
L3-cue_166
over here disappear and a charge over here appear at the same time.
L3-cue_167
In order to make sure that it’s at the same time, he can’t sit in the front of the ship,
L3-cue_168
because he’ll see one before he sees the other on account of light—so let’s suppose
L3-cue_169
that he’s very careful; he sits dead center in the middle of the ship, right here,
L3-cue_170
and looks-he’s right in the middle, halfway in between.
L3-cue_171
#Incidentally, I’m going to have another man doing the same kind
L3-cue_172
of observation in the other ship.
L3-cue_173
And now: a lightning bolt strikes, and charge at this point A is created, at a certain instant.
L3-cue_174
And at the same instant, back over here at this place B on the other side,
L3-cue_175
on the back of this—at the other end of the spaceship (funny—looking spaceship),
L3-cue_176
the charge is annihilated—disappears—at the same time, which is perfectly consistent
L3-cue_177
with our idea that charge is conserved,
L3-cue_178
because if we lose one electron—we get one electron here,
L3-cue_179
and lose one here, but nothing went in between.
L3-cue_180
#He says it’s the same time—he watches; he sees it’s exactly the same time—because the light
L3-cue_181
which comes from the bolt which created the [charge at] A reaches him at the same time
L3-cue_182
as the light which comes from the flash of disappearance—we suppose
L3-cue_183
that when it disappears there’s the flash,
L3-cue_184
and when it’s created there’s a flash (so we can see what happened),
L3-cue_185
and then we see the two flash at the same time—and since he knows he’s in the middle
L3-cue_186
of the ship, he says, "Yes, when one disappeared, the other was created."
L3-cue_187
#But: what happens to our friend in the other ship?
L3-cue_188
He says, "No, you’re wrong, my friend; I saw A was created before B,
L3-cue_189
because the light is coming out of A, but the man is moving toward it, because he’s moving,
L3-cue_190
and the light hits him from the front before the light can reach him from the back,
L3-cue_191
because he’s moving away from the light [at B].
L3-cue_192
So by the time the light gets to here he’s got—moved over.
L3-cue_193
#So he says, "No; A, you see, was created first, and then B disappeared—so for a short time
L3-cue_194
after A, after I saw A was created, B hadn’t yet disappeared, and I got some charge.
L3-cue_195
#That’s not the conservation of charge, it’s against the laws."
L3-cue_196
#So the other fellow says, "Yeah, but you’re moving."
L3-cue_197
He says, "How do you know?"—and so on—"I think you’re moving."
L3-cue_198
So if we are unable by any experiment to see a difference
L3-cue_199
in the physical laws whether we’re moving or not, if the conservation
L3-cue_200
of charge were not local, we could tell when were—you see, if it were not local,
L3-cue_201
only a certain kind of man would see it work right, namely, the guy who’s standing still
L3-cue_202
in an absolute sense, but such a thing shall be impossible according to Einstein, and,
L3-cue_203
therefore, it’s impossible, according to the relativity principle,
L3-cue_204
to have non-local conservation of charge.
L3-cue_205
#This conversation—the locality of the conservation of charge—is consonant
L3-cue_206
with the theory of relativity, and it turns out that this is true
L3-cue_207
of all the conservation laws—not just the charge, as you can appreciate;
L3-cue_208
if anything is conserved, it’s the same principle.
L3-cue_209
Now, another interesting thing about charge, which has nothing to do
L3-cue_210
with the conservation law and is independent of that, is a very strange one
L3-cue_211
for which we have no real explanation today—and that is: that the charge always comes in units.
L3-cue_212
#When we have a particle that’s charged, it’s got 1 charge, or 2 charge, or -1, or -2.
L3-cue_213
It’s a nice little lumpy unit, and has nothing to do with the conservation of charge,
L3-cue_214
but I can’t help writing down that it comes in units, the thing that’s conserved.
L3-cue_215
It’s very nice that it comes in units, because that makes the theory of conservation
L3-cue_216
of charge very easy to understand: it’s just a thing,
L3-cue_217
which we count, which goes from place to place.
L3-cue_218
#Finally, it turns out, technically, that the total charge of a thing is very easy
L3-cue_219
to determine electrically, because the charge has a very important characteristic:
L3-cue_220
it’s the source of the electric and magnetic field—charge is a measure of the interaction
L3-cue_221
of an object with electricity, with electric fields.
L3-cue_222
#And so the other item that we should put here on the list is that this is a source of a field.
L3-cue_223
In other words, the electricity is related to the charge.
L3-cue_224
So the particular quantity which is conserved here has two other aspects
L3-cue_225
which are not connected with the conservation directly, but are interesting anyway:
L3-cue_226
one is that it comes in units, and the other that it’s the source of a field.
L3-cue_227
#Are there other examples?
L3-cue_228
#There are many conservation laws.
L3-cue_229
#I give some more examples of conservation laws of the same type as the charge in the sense
L3-cue_230
that it’s merely a matter of counting.
L3-cue_231
There is a conservation law called a conservation of baryons.
L3-cue_232
A neutron can go into a proton.
L3-cue_233
If we count each of those as one "p-en", then we don’t lose the number of "p-en"s.
L3-cue_234
The word "p-en" is actually substituted by baryon, which is equally mysterious and meaningless.
L3-cue_235
The neutron carries one baryonic charge unit, or represents one baryon;
L3-cue_236
then a proton represents one baryon—all we’re doing is counting and making big words.
L3-cue_237
So the total number—if this reaction occurs, the total number of baryons doesn’t change.
L3-cue_238
#It does turn out, however, that there are other reactions in nature.
L3-cue_239
For example, a proton plus a proton can produce rather a great variety
L3-cue_240
of strange objects:—a lambda, a proton, and a K+, for instance.
L3-cue_241
These lambda and K+ are names for peculiar particles.
L3-cue_242
#Now from this one, you know you put two baryons in; you see one come out,
L3-cue_243
so possibly one or the other is one [baryon].
L3-cue_244
But if you’ll study the lambda later, you’ll discover that it very slowly—this is easy
L3-cue_245
for it, and this is hard for it to do; it disintegrates into a proton and a pi,
L3-cue_246
and ultimately the pi disintegrates into electrons
L3-cue_247
and whatnot-but what you’ve got here is the baryon coming out again.
L3-cue_248
So we think that the lambda has a baryon number, but the K does not, [it] has zero.
L3-cue_249
#So in counting these other numbers, we have a similar situation
L3-cue_250
with baryons-so we have charge, and then we have baryon number, with a special rule
L3-cue_251
that the baryon number is the number of protons, plus the number of neutrons,
L3-cue_252
plus the number of lambdas, minus the number of antiprotons, minus the number of antineutrons,
L3-cue_253
and so on-it’s just a counting proposition; it’s conserved.
L3-cue_254
It comes in units, and nobody knows, but everybody wants to think
L3-cue_255
by analogy that it’s the source of a field.
L3-cue_256
#We are trying to guess at the laws of nuclear interaction, and the reason we make these kinds
L3-cue_257
of tables is, this is one of the trick ways of guessing at nature.
L3-cue_258
If this is a source of a field, and this does the same thing, it ought to be a source
L3-cue_259
of a field, too-too bad; so far it doesn’t seem to be,
L3-cue_260
or for sure it isn’t anyway—we don’t know.
L3-cue_261
Sometimes people think it is, sometimes not.
L3-cue_262
We don’t know enough to be sure about that question.
L3-cue_263
#Now, it turns out that there is a very peculiar thing—[but first] I would
L3-cue_264
like to mention there are one or two more of these counting propositions,
L3-cue_265
called lepton numbers, and so on, but you learn nothing new; it’s the same idea, just counting.
L3-cue_266
#There is one, however, which is slightly different; [it] is that there are, in nature,
L3-cue_267
characteristic rates, apparently, with these strange particles: there are rates of reactions
L3-cue_268
which are very fast, and very easy reactions to do—and others that are very slow.
L3-cue_269
(I don’t mean easy and hard in a technical sense, in actually doing the experiment;
L3-cue_270
it’s got to do with the rates at which these reactions occur,
L3-cue_271
when the particles are present.)
L3-cue_272
Anyway, there’s a clear distinction between this kind of a reaction, and this.
L3-cue_273
#It turns out that if you take only faster, easy, reactions, that there’s one more counting law,
L3-cue_274
in which the lambda gets a minus one, and the K+ gets a plus one,
L3-cue_275
and it’s called the strangeness number—or hyperon charge, rather—and the proton gets zero.
L3-cue_276
And that particular rule is right for every easy reaction, but it’s wrong for the slow reaction.
L3-cue_277
#Then, we have a conservation law called the conservation of strangeness or the conservation
L3-cue_278
of hyperon number, which is nearly right,
L3-cue_279
which is very peculiar-it’s why the stuff has been called strangeness,
L3-cue_280
the number: it’s nearly true—nearly true.
L3-cue_281
But in trying to understand the strong interactions, which are involved
L3-cue_282
in nuclear forces (since, as far as the strong interactions are involved,
L3-cue_283
the thing is conserved), that has made people propose that for the strong interactions,
L3-cue_284
it’s again a source of a field—but we don’t know.
L3-cue_285
#I bring these matters up to show you how the conservation laws are used to guess new laws.
L3-cue_286
#Now, there are other conservation laws that have been proposed from time
L3-cue_287
to time of the same nature as counting.
L3-cue_288
For example, chemists once thought that no matter what happened,
L3-cue_289
the number of sodium atoms stayed the same.
L3-cue_290
But sodium atoms are not permanent; it’s possible to transmute atoms from one
L3-cue_291
to another, so that one has disappeared.
L3-cue_292
#Another law, which was for a while believed to be true,
L3-cue_293
was that the total mass of an object stays the same.
L3-cue_294
It depends on how you define mass, and whether you get mixed up with the energy, nowadays,
L3-cue_295
and I will disregard this mass law until we come to the conservation of energy.
L3-cue_296
But the mass conservation law has been contained in the next one, which I’m going to discuss now,
L3-cue_297
which is the law of conservation of energy.
L3-cue_298
#The law of conservation of energy is the most difficult, abstract one—and the most useful,
L3-cue_299
as a matter of fact, of all the conservation laws.
L3-cue_300
It’s more difficult to understand than the charge (and these other ones),
L3-cue_301
because in the charge, (and these other ones), it’s obviously,
L3-cue_302
merely—the mechanism is perfectly clear—it’s a conservation of the object (sort of).
L3-cue_303
I mean not quite, because of this problem that we get some new things from old things,
L3-cue_304
but it’s really a matter of counting.
L3-cue_305
But the conservation of energy is a little more difficult: here,
L3-cue_306
we have a number which is not changed in time,
L3-cue_307
but the number doesn’t represent the number of any particular thing.
L3-cue_308
I would like to make a kind of silly analogy to explain a little bit about it.
L3-cue_309
#I want you to imagine that a mother has a very difficult child—well, not necessarily difficult,
L3-cue_310
but she has a child—who she leaves alone in a room with 28 blocks—they’re indestructible,
L3-cue_311
absolutely indestructible blocks, like the charges.
L3-cue_312
The child plays with the blocks all during the day,
L3-cue_313
and when the mother comes back she discovers indeed there are 28 blocks.
L3-cue_314
She checks all the time the conservation of blocks.
L3-cue_315
Well, this goes on for a few days until one day when she comes in, there are only 27 blocks:
L3-cue_316
one block she finds later outside the window; he threw one out the window.
L3-cue_317
#So first we must appreciate the conservation laws involved that you watch out that the stuff
L3-cue_318
that you’re trying to check doesn’t go out through some wall.
L3-cue_319
#The same thing could happen the other way—if a boy came to play with him and brought
L3-cue_320
in some blocks; of course, those are obvious technical matters that you have to be careful
L3-cue_321
of when you talk about a conservation law.
L3-cue_322
#Now suppose, however, that when the mother comes to count the blocks,
L3-cue_323
she finds there are only 25 blocks, but suspects that in a little toy box,
L3-cue_324
in a box that the boy has, he has hidden the blocks.
L3-cue_325
So she says, "I’m going to open the box."
L3-cue_326
He says, "No, you cannot open the box."
L3-cue_327
How can she tell?
L3-cue_328
She says, "I am a very clever mother, unlike most," she would say; "the box weighs, I know,
L3-cue_329
when it’s empty, 16 ounces, and each block weighs 3 ounces,
L3-cue_330
so what I’m going to do is, I’m going to weigh the box."
L3-cue_331
So she would have another thing: number of blocks seen, plus weight of box minus 16 ounces,
L3-cue_332
divided by 3 ounces, and that adds always the same, for 28.
L3-cue_333
Goes on for a while until it doesn’t check, but she notices that the dirty water
L3-cue_334
in the sink is changing its level—so, we add the water level:
L3-cue_335
height of water in sink minus 6 inches (which it is when there’s no block in it),
L3-cue_336
divided by a quarter of an inch (which is the height that the water rises
L3-cue_337
when a block is in the dirty water).
L3-cue_338
#Now, as the boy becomes more ingenious, and the mother continues to be ingenious,
L3-cue_339
more and more terms must be added on here—which all really represent blocks,
L3-cue_340
but from a mathematical standpoint are abstract calculations—which are blocks not seen.
L3-cue_341
#Now I would like to draw my analogy, and tell you what is in common for this
L3-cue_342
and the conservation of energy, and what is different.
L3-cue_343
Suppose that you never saw the blocks at all—that in any one
L3-cue_344
of the situations, there were never any blocks.
L3-cue_345
Then the mother would be always calculating a whole lot of terms, which she could call blocks
L3-cue_346
in the box, blocks in the water, blocks in—and so on.
L3-cue_347
But there are other differences: there aren’t any blocks, as far as we can tell,
L3-cue_348
and the numbers that come out here are not integers,
L3-cue_349
unlike the case of the blocks with the child.
L3-cue_350
Suppose— I mean it could happen to the poor lady that when she calculates this number,
L3-cue_351
it comes out 6 1/8 blocks, and when she calculates this number,
L3-cue_352
it comes out 7/8 of a block, and the rest of them give 21; still 28—that’s the way it looks.
L3-cue_353
#So, what we discover is, that we have a scheme in which we can find a sequence of rules—and
L3-cue_354
from the rules, each one of the different kinds of calculations we call calculating the same
L3-cue_355
"thing" (number of blocks, or energy) by different rules.
L3-cue_356
Then we add all the numbers together, from all the different forms of energy;
L3-cue_357
it always adds up to the same total.
L3-cue_358
#But as far as we know, there are not real units—it’s not made
L3-cue_359
out of little ball bearings—so it’s abstract; it’s purely mathematical: there exists a number
L3-cue_360
such that you can calculate it, and it doesn’t change—I cannot interpret it any better
L3-cue_361
than that.
L3-cue_362
#This energy has all kinds of forms analogous to the blocks in the box,
L3-cue_363
and blocks in the sinkwater, and so on.
L3-cue_364
There’s energy due to motion; it’s called kinetic energy.
L3-cue_365
There’s energy due to gravitational interaction; the gravitational potential energy, it’s called.
L3-cue_366
There’s a thing called thermal energy, electrical energy, light energy, elastic energy,
L3-cue_367
and springs, and so on; chemical energy, nuclear energy—and there is also an energy
L3-cue_368
that a particle has from its mere existence, an energy that depends on its mass directly;
L3-cue_369
that’s the contribution of Einstein, as you undoubtedly know.
L3-cue_370
#(E=MC-squared is what I was talking about, which is the famous equation of this mystic law.)
L3-cue_371
#Now, actually, although I mentioned a large number of energies, I would like to explain
L3-cue_372
that we’re not completely ignorant about the thing,
L3-cue_373
and that we understand the relationship of some of them.
L3-cue_374
For example, what we call thermal energy is, to a large extent,
L3-cue_375
merely the energy—the kinetic energy of motion—of the particles inside an object.
L3-cue_376
What we call elastic energy and chemical energy both have about the same origin—namely,
L3-cue_377
the forces between the atoms: when the atoms rearrange in a new pattern,
L3-cue_378
some energy is changed—that quantity changes;
L3-cue_379
that means that some other quantity has to change.
L3-cue_380
So, for instance, if the chemical energy changes,
L3-cue_381
then heat energy is changed—in burning something, the chemical energy changes,
L3-cue_382
and you find heat where you didn’t have the heat before—because it all has to add up right.
L3-cue_383
But elastic energy and chemical energy are both interactions of atoms,
L3-cue_384
and we now understand the interactions of the energies
L3-cue_385
of the atom-or those chemical interactions, or those interactions
L3-cue_386
of the atoms-to be a combination of two things: one is electrical energy,
L3-cue_387
and the other is kinetic energy, again—only the formula for it is quantum mechanical,
L3-cue_388
instead of the usual; it’s a little different one.
L3-cue_389
#Light energy is nothing but electrical energy, because light has now been interpreted
L3-cue_390
as an electric and magnetic wave.
L3-cue_391
#The nuclear energy has no—is not represented in terms of the others,
L3-cue_392
but as a result of—what do we say—due to "nuclear forces"; well, we didn’t say anything
L3-cue_393
but [that] nuclear energy is not connected yet to the others.
L3-cue_394
I’m not just talking about the energy released; in the uranium nucleus there’s a certain amount
L3-cue_395
of energy, and then when the thing disintegrates, it changes the amount of energy
L3-cue_396
in the nucleus, but the total amount of energy in the world doesn’t change—so a lot of heat
L3-cue_397
and stuff is generated in the process, in order to balance that thing out.
L3-cue_398
#Now, this conservation law is very useful in many technical ways,
L3-cue_399
and I wish I could give you a number of them.
L3-cue_400
I’ll give you some very simple ones, to show you how—from the conservation of energy,
L3-cue_401
and knowing the formulas for the energy (which are not those)—you can calculate (you can see
L3-cue_402
what) some certain things have to happen.
L3-cue_403
In other words, many laws are not independent laws, but are just secret ways of talking
L3-cue_404
about the conservation of energy—or, better: knowing the conservation of energy,
L3-cue_405
you can also understand a lot of [other] laws.
L3-cue_406
#The simplest one is a lever.
L3-cue_407
If this is a lever on a pivot, and let’s say this distance is 1,
L3-cue_408
and this distance 4 (one foot and four feet), then—but first, I must give you the law
L3-cue_409
for gravity energy: the law for gravity energy is to take (if you have a lot of weight,
L3-cue_410
you take) the weight of each weight, multiply it by the height above the ground,
L3-cue_411
and add this together for all the weights; that gives all the gravity energy.
L3-cue_412
Let’s put the ground right here.
L3-cue_413
#Now, the problem is this: suppose that I have a one—pound weight here,
L3-cue_414
just to make it—to make it more complicated, a two—pound weight here,
L3-cue_415
and I have an unknown mystic weight on the other side: X is always the unknown,
L3-cue_416
so let’s call it W—to make it look like we’ve advanced above the usual.
L3-cue_417
#Now, the question is, how much must W be,
L3-cue_418
so that it just balances—it swings quietly back and forth without any trouble?
L3-cue_419
That means that the energy—if it swings quietly back and forth without any trouble
L3-cue_420
when it’s set this way-when it’s tilted up a little bit (say for instance, that this has gone
L3-cue_421
up one inch), the energy is the same.
L3-cue_422
If it is the same, then it doesn’t care much which way, and it doesn’t fall over.
L3-cue_423
So if this goes up one inch, how far down does this go?
L3-cue_424
If you think about it quite a long time (this being one inch and that being four feet),
L3-cue_425
you can figure out by proportion that this being one foot, this is a quarter of an inch.
L3-cue_426
So that the rule says this: that before anything happened,
L3-cue_427
all the heights were zero, so the total energy is zero.
L3-cue_428
After the thing has happened, we multiply the weights unknown
L3-cue_429
by the height—minus-a-quarter-of-an-inch, add the other weight—two by the height one—inch,
L3-cue_430
and this should add up to the same energy as before.
L3-cue_431
So that a quarter of W taken away from two is zero, and W must be eight.
L3-cue_432
#So that’s how we find the laws—I mean, that’s one way we can understand the easy law
L3-cue_433
that you know, of course, the law of the lever.
L3-cue_434
But it’s interesting that not only this one, but hundreds of others
L3-cue_435
of the physical laws can all be closely related to the various forms of energy—so I illustrate
L3-cue_436
that only to illustrate how useful it is.
L3-cue_437
#The only trouble is, of course, it doesn’t really work.
L3-cue_438
I mean, if you did that, it wouldn’t swing like this on account of friction in the fulcrum.
L3-cue_439
If I had something moving, for instance—if it has kinetic energy, like a rolling ball,
L3-cue_440
and it’s on a constant height, and it rolls along—and then it stops,
L3-cue_441
that’s on account of friction.
L3-cue_442
But what happened to the energy of the ball?
L3-cue_443
The answer is that the energy of the ball has gone into the energy of the jiggling
L3-cue_444
of the atoms in the floor and in the ball.
L3-cue_445
#The world that we see on a large scale looks so nice when we polish a nice round ball,
L3-cue_446
and so on-it’s really quite complicated when you look at it on a little scale:
L3-cue_447
billions of tiny atoms, with all kinds of irregular shapes, looked at in detail.
L3-cue_448
It’s like a very rough boulder, really, when looked at finely enough,
L3-cue_449
because it’s made out of these little balls [i.e. atoms].
L3-cue_450
The floor is the same way; it’s a bumpy business made out of balls.
L3-cue_451
You roll this monster thing over the other, you can see that the little atoms are going
L3-cue_452
to go snap, jiggle, snap, jiggle—and after the thing has rolled across,
L3-cue_453
the ones that are left behind are still shaking a little bit from the pushing
L3-cue_454
and snapping that they went through.
L3-cue_455
#So there is left in the floor a jiggling motion, or thermal energy.
L3-cue_456
And although at first it looks like the law of conservation is false, energy has a tendency
L3-cue_457
to hide from us, and we need thermometers and other instruments
L3-cue_458
to make sure that it’s still there.
L3-cue_459
#The first demonstration of the conservation of energy (—oh:
L3-cue_460
the energy is conserved no matter how complex the process, or no matter what,
L3-cue_461
even when we don’t know the detailed laws)
L3-cue_462
#The first demonstration of the law of conservation of energy, in fact,
L3-cue_463
was not by a physicist, but by a doctor—a medical man.
L3-cue_464
He demonstrated with rats that the total energy of the food put in before,
L3-cue_465
and their heat generated by the—well, you burn food,
L3-cue_466
and you find out how much heat is generated,
L3-cue_467
and then you feed the rats the food—and oxygen—and it’s converted
L3-cue_468
to carbon dioxide the same way as in burning, and measure the energy in that case,
L3-cue_469
and you find out that living creatures do exactly the same thing as non—living creatures,
L3-cue_470
that the law of conservation of energy is exactly as true for life, as not!
L3-cue_471
As a matter of fact, it was discovered by this.
L3-cue_472
#Incidentally, it’s interesting, that every overall principle that we know,
L3-cue_473
that we can test on the great phenomena of life, work just as well as for dead things.
L3-cue_474
That is, there is no evidence yet that what goes
L3-cue_475
on in living creatures is necessarily different (it may be more complicated,
L3-cue_476
but [not] necessarily different) than what goes on in non—living things—I mean as far
L3-cue_477
as the physical laws are concerned.
L3-cue_478
#Incidentally, this amount of energy that’s in the food—it’ll tell you how much heat
L3-cue_479
and mechanical work and everything that’s generated, is what you read—when you read
L3-cue_480
or hear about calories, you’re not eating something called calories;
L3-cue_481
you’re eating that measure of the amount of heat energy that’s in the food.
L3-cue_482
For people who like to-physicists always feel so superior, and smart, and so on,
L3-cue_483
that people would just like to get them once on something—and
L3-cue_484
so I’ll give you something to get them on.
L3-cue_485
#They should be utterly ashamed of themselves,
L3-cue_486
because they take the same thing—energy—and they measure it in a host of different ways,
L3-cue_487
with different names, absolutely absurd: energy can be measured in calories, in ergs,
L3-cue_488
in electron volts, in foot pounds, in BTU, in horsepower hours,
L3-cue_489
in kilowatt hours-all exactly the same thing.
L3-cue_490
It’s like having money, you know, in dollars and in pounds, and so on,
L3-cue_491
but unlike the economic situation, where the ratio can change,
L3-cue_492
these dopey things are an absolutely guaranteed proportion.
L3-cue_493
If anything could be analogous to it at all, the only hope would be to say
L3-cue_494
that there are 20 shillings to a pound, and that you have shillings
L3-cue_495
and pounds-with one complication that the physicist allows:
L3-cue_496
instead of saying he has 20 shillings to a pound, he says he has irrational ratios,
L3-cue_497
like 1.6183178 shillings to a pound.
L3-cue_498
In addition to that, you’d think that the more modern
L3-cue_499
or high-class theoretical physicists would at least use a common unit, but you can find papers
L3-cue_500
with degrees Kelvin for measuring energy,
L3-cue_501
megacycles—inverse Fermis is the latest invention.
L3-cue_502
We don’t need any more inventions; we should all measure the energy
L3-cue_503
in exactly the same—we should measure the energy in one unit, and let it be done,
L3-cue_504
instead of having all these different names.
L3-cue_505
#It just shows that people are often also—they want to say, see, I should bring my little boy
L3-cue_506
to show on the screen, so that the audience will understand that I’m human—well,
L3-cue_507
the proof that physicists are human is the idiocy of all the different units
L3-cue_508
which they use for measuring energy!
L3-cue_509
#Now, we have a number of interesting phenomena in nature,
L3-cue_510
which present us some curious problems with energy;
L3-cue_511
[it] has recently been discovered some things called quasars, which are very far away,
L3-cue_512
and they emit a lot of light—they’re enormously far away, and emit a lot of light,
L3-cue_513
and a lot of radio waves—and have radiating so much energy,
L3-cue_514
that the question is, where does it come from?
L3-cue_515
That is, after it’s radiated this enormous amount of energy,
L3-cue_516
the condition must be different than it was before, if the conservation of energy is right.
L3-cue_517
#Question: does the thing collapse gravitationally?
L3-cue_518
Is it a different condition gravitationally?
L3-cue_519
Is it coming from gravity energy, this big emission,
L3-cue_520
or is it coming from nuclear energy, and so on?
L3-cue_521
#Nobody knows.
L3-cue_522
#Would you like to propose that maybe the law of conservation of energy is not right?
L3-cue_523
Well, when a thing is investigated as poorly—I mean,
L3-cue_524
as incompletely-as is the quasars (because they can’t see so easily at such a large distance),
L3-cue_525
it very rarely is, when a thing looks difficult, that the fundamental laws are wrong;
L3-cue_526
it’s usually that the details are unknown.
L3-cue_527
Another interesting example of the use of the conservation of energy is in this reaction:
L3-cue_528
it was first thought that neutrons turned to protons plus electrons,
L3-cue_529
but the energy of a neutron is fixed, and that of a proton could be measured,
L3-cue_530
and the energy of an electron did not add up correctly to the energy
L3-cue_531
of the neutron-the proton and electron together didn’t add up to the neutron.
L3-cue_532
#Two possibilities existed.
L3-cue_533
One was the law of energy conservation is not right.
L3-cue_534
In fact, it was proposed by Bohr for a while,
L3-cue_535
that maybe the conservation law worked only statistically, on the average, for large scale.
L3-cue_536
But it turns out that Fermi—I mean, Pauli—suggested, no,
L3-cue_537
that the fact that the energy doesn’t check out is because there’s a something else coming
L3-cue_538
out which we now call an antineutrino,
L3-cue_539
and that this other thing coming out takes out the energy.
L3-cue_540
#If you say, "The only reason for the antineutrino is to make the conservation
L3-cue_541
of energy right," well, it makes a lot of other things right: conservation of momentum,
L3-cue_542
and other conservation laws, are fixed up because a piece came
L3-cue_543
out that we weren’t worrying about—and very recently it has been directly demonstrated
L3-cue_544
that such neutrinos indeed exist.
L3-cue_545
#That illustrates a point.
L3-cue_546
Why are we able to extend our laws to regions that we’re not sure [about]?
L3-cue_547
How is it possible—why are we so confident that because we check the energy conservation here,
L3-cue_548
then—when we get a new phenomenon—we say, "It’s got to satisfy the conservation of energy."
L3-cue_549
Every once in a while you read in the paper
L3-cue_550
that the physicists have discovered one of their favorite laws is wrong.
L3-cue_551
It’s not a mistake to say that it’s true in a region
L3-cue_552
where you don’t look yet, where you haven’t looked yet.
L3-cue_553
If you will not say that it’s true in a region
L3-cue_554
that you haven’t looked yet, you don’t know anything.
L3-cue_555
If the only laws that you find are those which you just finished observing,
L3-cue_556
then you can’t make any predictions.
L3-cue_557
#The only utility of the science is to go on and to try to take guesses, you see;
L3-cue_558
the most likely thing is that the energy is conserved in other places.
L3-cue_559
So what we do, always, is to stick your neck out—and that, of course,
L3-cue_560
means that the science is uncertain.
L3-cue_561
The moment that you make a proposition about a region of experience
L3-cue_562
that you haven’t directly seen, then you must be uncertain.
L3-cue_563
But we always must make statements about the regions that we haven’t seen,
L3-cue_564
or it’s no use in the whole business.
L3-cue_565
#For instance, the mass of an object changes when it moves, because of the conservation
L3-cue_566
of energy-the energy associated with the motion appears as an extra mass,
L3-cue_567
because of the relation of mass and energy—so things get heavier when they move.
L3-cue_568
It was first believed by Newton that this wasn’t the case, [and] that the masses stayed constant.
L3-cue_569
So when it was discovered that that was false, everybody’d say, "It was a terrible thing
L3-cue_570
that physicists found out they were wrong—why did they think they were right?"
L3-cue_571
The effect is very small—only when you get near the speed of light does it make any difference.
L3-cue_572
If you spin a top, it weighs the same as if you don’t spin it,
L3-cue_573
within millions-a very, very fine fraction.
L3-cue_574
So you could say, "Oh!
L3-cue_575
They should have said—they should have said—that if you do not move any faster
L3-cue_576
than so—and—so, then the mass doesn’t change— that would then be certain."
L3-cue_577
#No, the experiment [also] happens to be done only with tops made out of wood, copper, steel,
L3-cue_578
and so on-so we [also] should have said that tops made out of copper, steel, wood,
L3-cue_579
and so on, were not moving any faster.
L3-cue_580
You see, we do not know all the conditions that we need for an experiment:
L3-cue_581
it is not known whether a radioactive top would have a mass that’s conserved,
L3-cue_582
but we have to take a guess.
L3-cue_583
#So in order to have any utility at all to the science, in order not simply
L3-cue_584
to describe an experiment that’s just been done,
L3-cue_585
we have to propose laws beyond their range—and there’s nothing wrong with that—
L3-cue_586
that’s the success; that’s the point.
L3-cue_587
#That makes the science uncertain.
L3-cue_588
If you thought before that science was certain, well, that’s just an error on your part.
L3-cue_589
#Now there are other—so, we have here the energy, which we could put on our list,
L3-cue_590
and it’s conserved perfectly, as far as we know—but it does not come in units.
L3-cue_591
Now the question is, is it the source of a field—and the answer is yes.
L3-cue_592
#Einstein understood gravitation as being generated by energy.
L3-cue_593
Energy and mass are equivalent, and Newton’s interpretation
L3-cue_594
that the mass is what produced the gravity has been modified
L3-cue_595
to being the energy that produces the gravity.
L3-cue_596
There are other laws that are similar to the conservation of energy
L3-cue_597
in the sense that they are numbers.
L3-cue_598
I haven’t very much time to describe them, but I’ll mention what they are.
L3-cue_599
#One of them is the momentum.
L3-cue_600
It means if you take all the masses in an object and multiply them
L3-cue_601
by the velocities (for instance), and add it together, that’s the momentum-of the particles
L3-cue_602
in it, anyway; that total amount of momentum is conserved.
L3-cue_603
The energy and the momentum are now understood to be very closely related,
L3-cue_604
and so they should be in the same column in this conservation law [table].
L3-cue_605
#Another example of a conserved quantity is angular momentum,
L3-cue_606
an item which we discussed some time before.
L3-cue_607
The angular momentum is the area generated per second by objects moving about.
L3-cue_608
For example, if an object is here, and is moving, and we take any center whatsoever,
L3-cue_609
then—the area, the rate of change—the speed at which this area increases,
L3-cue_610
multiplied by the mass of the object, and added together for all the objects,
L3-cue_611
is called the angular momentum—and that quantity doesn’t change, either.
L3-cue_612
#So we have conservation of angular momentum.
L3-cue_613
#Incidentally, at first sight, if you know too much physics,
L3-cue_614
you might think that the angular momentum is not conserved: like the energy,
L3-cue_615
it appears also in different forms, although most people think it only appears
L3-cue_616
in motion-but it does appear in other forms, and I will illustrate that.
L3-cue_617
You know that if you have a wire, and move a magnet up into it, increasing the magnetic field
L3-cue_618
through the flux through the wires, there’ll be an electric current—
L3-cue_619
that’s how electric generators work.
L3-cue_620
#Now, imagine that I have instead of a wire,
L3-cue_621
a disk on which there are electric charges analogous to the electrons in the wire.
L3-cue_622
Then I bring up a magnet dead center along the axis from far away, very rapidly, up to here,
L3-cue_623
so now there’s a flux change through here.
L3-cue_624
Then, just as in the wire, these will start to go around.
L3-cue_625
If this were on a wheel, it would be spinning by the time I brought the magnet up.
L3-cue_626
Well, that doesn’t look like conservation of angular momentum, because when it’s down here,
L3-cue_627
nothing’s turning, and when it’s up here, it’s spinning.
L3-cue_628
So we got turning for nothing—and that’s against the rules.
L3-cue_629
#"Oh, yes," you say, "I know; there must be another kind of interaction
L3-cue_630
that makes the magnets spin the opposite way."
L3-cue_631
That’s not the case: there is no electrical force
L3-cue_632
on the magnet tending to twist it the opposite way.
L3-cue_633
The explanation is, that angular momentum appears in two forms:
L3-cue_634
one of them is angular momentum of motion, and the other is angular momentum in electric
L3-cue_635
and magnetic fields—and there is angular momentum in the field here,
L3-cue_636
although it doesn’t appear as motion, and has the opposite sign to the spin.
L3-cue_637
#If we take the opposite case it’s even more clear: if we have just these particles
L3-cue_638
and the magnet here—and everything standing still, I say there’s angular momentum there.
L3-cue_639
There’s a rotational effect; I mean, there’s an angular momentum
L3-cue_640
in the field-there’s a hidden form of angular momentum; it doesn’t appear as actual rotation.
L3-cue_641
When you pull this magnet down, and take the instrument apart, and all the fields separate,
L3-cue_642
then the angular momentum that’s in the field has to appear now, and this thing will spin
L3-cue_643
from the-the law that makes it spin is the law of induction of electricity.
L3-cue_644
#Now the question as to whether it comes in units is very difficult for me to answer.
L3-cue_645
At first sight, you’d say, it’s absolutely impossible that angular momentum come in units,
L3-cue_646
because angular momentum depends upon the direction in which you project the picture.
L3-cue_647
I said in another lecture that you have to look at this thing, and see how the area changes.
L3-cue_648
If you look at an angle—if you had something turning this way,
L3-cue_649
and you looked at it sideways—you wouldn’t see any area changing.
L3-cue_650
If you looked at not—quite—vertical, but just a little bit off,
L3-cue_651
you’ll see that the area changes a little bit different—a little bit different,
L3-cue_652
if you come at a small angle.
L3-cue_653
#So if angular momentum came in units, 8 units, and then you looked not exactly down at the 8
L3-cue_654
but at a slight angle, it should look like a little bit less than 8.
L3-cue_655
Now, 7 is not a little bit less than 8, it’s a definite amount less than 8,
L3-cue_656
so the darn thing can’t possibly come in units.
L3-cue_657
This "proof," however, is evaded by the subtleties and peculiarities
L3-cue_658
of quantum mechanics: if we measure the angular momentum about any axis,
L3-cue_659
amazingly enough it’s always a number of units!
L3-cue_660
So what to say about this is, yes—but it’s not the kind of unit,
L3-cue_661
like electric charge, that you can count them inside.
L3-cue_662
The angular momentum, although it does come in units—in the mathematical sense that the number
L3-cue_663
that we get in any measurement is a definite integer times a unit—we cannot interpret
L3-cue_664
that in the same manner that we interpret this in the case of electricity,
L3-cue_665
that there’s this one, and I see another one; you see those little six little units in there.
L3-cue_666
You can’t see the units, you see, but it comes
L3-cue_667
out always an integer anyway, which is very peculiar.
L3-cue_668
#Now, there are a number of other conservation laws that I should include in the list,
L3-cue_669
and I’ll just illustrate the type.
L3-cue_670
They’re not as interesting as these; they’re not numbers, exactly.
L3-cue_671
If the laws of physics are nice, and if were to start some kind of device off,
L3-cue_672
with particles moving, which had a certain definite symmetry—suppose
L3-cue_673
that we had some objects that were like this, and that the exact way that they were moving was
L3-cue_674
such that it was bilaterally symmetrical—then, as the laws of physics go on,
L3-cue_675
and all the collisions, and so on, you would probably expect (and rightly so)
L3-cue_676
that if you’d look at this same picture later, it will be bilaterally symmetrical.
L3-cue_677
#So there is a kind of conservation, a conservation of the symmetry character,
L3-cue_678
which is—should be—in the list there, but it’s not like a number that you measure;
L3-cue_679
it’s just, well, a symmetry character.
L3-cue_680
#I will discuss it in much more detail in the next lecture.
L3-cue_681
The reason it’s not interesting—it’s not very interesting in classical physics,
L3-cue_682
because the times in which you get such nicely symmetrical initial conditions is very rare,
L3-cue_683
and it’s not a very important or practical conservation law.
L3-cue_684
#But in quantum mechanics, when we deal with very simple systems like atoms, and so on,
L3-cue_685
their internal constitution often has this kind of symmetry (of some sort),
L3-cue_686
like bilateral symmetry, or other, and then the symmetry character is maintained—it’s an
L3-cue_687
important law for understanding quantum phenomena.
L3-cue_688
#I should include it in the list
L3-cue_689
of all the important conservation laws, but I will discuss it next time.
L3-cue_690
#An interesting question is, whether there’s a deeper basis for these conservation laws,
L3-cue_691
or whether we have to take them as they are.
L3-cue_692
That, again, I will reserve for next time.
L3-cue_693
I would like, however, to remind you that in making a popular speech on these subjects,
L3-cue_694
there seem to be a lot of independent things.
L3-cue_695
#But with a deeper understanding of the physics, of the various principles,
L3-cue_696
there are deep interconnections between the things,
L3-cue_697
so that one implies the other, in some way.
L3-cue_698
For example, the relation between relativity and the necessity for local conservation, which,
L3-cue_699
if I said that without the demonstration, would appear as some kind
L3-cue_700
of a miracle-that the statement that you can’t tell how fast you’re moving implies
L3-cue_701
that if something is conserved, it must be done not by jumping from one place
L3-cue_702
to another-and here I would like to show you, or indicate, how the conservation
L3-cue_703
of angular momentum, and the conservation
L3-cue_704
of momentum (and a few other things) are, to some extent, related.
L3-cue_705
The conservation of angular momentum has to do with the area swept by particles moving.
L3-cue_706
#Now, if you had a lot of little particles here, and you took the center very far away,
L3-cue_707
then the distances are almost the same for every object,
L3-cue_708
and it doesn’t make much difference—so the only thing that counts in the area sweeping,
L3-cue_709
or in the conservation of angular momentum,
L3-cue_710
is the component of motion (vertically, say, in this case).
L3-cue_711
What we would discover is that each mass, multiplied by its velocity vertically,
L3-cue_712
added together, must be a constant—because the angular momentum is a constant about any point,
L3-cue_713
and if that point is far enough away, then it must be only that the sum
L3-cue_714
of the masses times the velocities is constant—and therefore the angular momentum
L3-cue_715
implies the conservation of momentum.
L3-cue_716
The conservation of angular momentum implies the conservation of momentum—and that, in turn,
L3-cue_717
implies another thing, which is the conservation of another item, which is so closely connected
L3-cue_718
that I don’t put it on the list: the principle about the center of gravity,
L3-cue_719
that a mass in a box cannot just move—disappear here, and move over here
L3-cue_720
by itself—that’s nothing to do with conservation: if you think, "Well,
L3-cue_721
you still got the mass, and I moved it from here to here," charge could do that, but not a mass.
L3-cue_722
#Let me explain why.
L3-cue_723
Suppose, since the laws of physics are not affected by motions,
L3-cue_724
that this box was drifting slowly upwards, and take a point not far away.
L3-cue_725
Now, as it’s drifting upwards, if the mass were here, quiet in a box,
L3-cue_726
in the beginning it has a mass here going up, and producing an area at a certain rate.
L3-cue_727
After the mass has moved over here, if it’s going up at the same speed
L3-cue_728
because the box is drifting, then the area would be increasing at a greater rate
L3-cue_729
because there’s a bigger length this way, although the altitudes are the same.
L3-cue_730
#But by the conservation of angular momentum, you can’t change the rate
L3-cue_731
at which the area’s changing, and therefore, you simply can’t move one mass from one place
L3-cue_732
to the other, if you don’t push on something else and get rid
L3-cue_733
of the momentum or angular momentum.
L3-cue_734
That’s the reason why the rockets in empty space can’t go—but they do go:
L3-cue_735
that’s because we have—the rocket—the center of gravity—if you figured it out with a lot
L3-cue_736
of masses, if you move one forward, you got to move others back, so that the total motion back
L3-cue_737
and forth of all the masses is nothing.
L3-cue_738
#Now, the way a rocket works is: here’s a rocket, which shoots some gas out of the back.
L3-cue_739
Here’s the gas-you see, beforehand the rocket standing still, say, in empty space,
L3-cue_740
and afterwards it shoots some stuff out the back—and then the rocket’s going forward.
L3-cue_741
The point is, that of all of the stuff in the world, the center of mass,
L3-cue_742
the average of all the mass, is still right where it was before.
L3-cue_743
But the interesting part has moved out here, and an uninteresting part,
L3-cue_744
that we don’t care about, has moved out here.
L3-cue_745
There is no theorem that says that the interesting things
L3-cue_746
in the world are conserved, only the total of everything.
L3-cue_747
#Discovering the laws of physics is like trying to put the pieces together of a jigsaw puzzle:
L3-cue_748
we have all these different pieces, and today they’re proliferating rapidly;
L3-cue_749
they’re lying about—many of them can’t be fitted with other ones.
L3-cue_750
Now, how do we know that they belong together?
L3-cue_751
How do we know that they really are parts of one picture, one at present incomplete picture?
L3-cue_752
We’re not sure, and it worries us to some extent, but we get encouragement
L3-cue_753
from the common characteristics of several pieces: they all show blue sky,
L3-cue_754
or they’re all made out of the same kind of wood.
L3-cue_755
#Thank you very much.